Que.What Are Scrum Ceremonies?

Scrum ceremonies (sometimes called Scrum events) are important events or elements of the Scrum methodology 
which follow the agile mindset and are often used in software development or iterative-type projects. 

1. Sprint planning
As its name implies, the sprint planning ceremony takes place before the sprint commences. 
This meeting is used to map out the scope, goals, and any issues or concerns for the upcoming sprint. 
During the sprint planning ceremony, the team determines which items in the project backlog they will work on during the sprint.

Key elements of the sprint planning ritual include: 
-Defining the scope of the sprint
-Establishing which tasks will be tackled and who on the team will be responsible for them 
-Setting concrete goals for the sprint, including deadlines for completion and metrics to determine success
-Addressing potential roadblocks, issues, or scheduling conflicts that might interfere with the sprint
-Ensuring that the plans get logged and scheduled in your project management software or tracking system to monitor progress 
  and maintain accountability.
     When it comes to sprint planning, you’ll want to be mindful of any holidays, special events, or individual days off that 
may affect the delivery or completion of certain tasks. Sprints typically last two weeks, which allows you just 10 workdays to
accomplish the goals you’ve set for the sprint. Additionally, risk management should always play a role in the sprint planning
ceremony. Scrum teams are not immune to unforeseen delays and hangups, so make sure to factor in these possibilities when planning.


2. Daily Scrum
The daily Scrum, also called the daily stand-up, is a short, time-boxed daily meeting in which each team member 
delivers a brief status update. These meetings are intentionally short and sweet, ideally taking only 15 minutes and 
no more than 30 at the most. The daily Scrum helps ensure that everyone is progressing with their tasks as scheduled 
and that issues or roadblocks are being addressed.

The daily Scrum ceremony should address on the following four questions:
What has been accomplished so far?
What’s currently being worked on?
What’s up next?
Are there any obstacles or impediments preventing progress?
The daily Scrum must not turn into an in-the-weeds discussion. Otherwise, you risk spending too much of the workday talking 
rather than being productive. It’s the Scrum master’s job to keep this ceremony on track. If a team member has an issue that 
needs further attention, schedule some time outside of the daily Scrum to address it. 

3. Sprint review
The sprint review is the first of two post-sprint ceremonies. Because Scrum was originally designed as a software development 
framework, each sprint was meant to produce a shippable increment of work, such as a new feature. 
During the sprint review, that new feature is demonstrated and feedback solicited from managers and stakeholders. 
Scrum has since been adopted by project teams across multiple industries and disciplines outside of IT. 
However, the concept of the sprint remains the same: to produce a specific and defined outcome. 
The sprint review is when that outcome is demoed or presented to stakeholders for comments and feedback.

4. Sprint retrospective
The sprint retrospective is the second ceremony to take place after a sprint has been completed. 
It’s also the final ceremony of the Scrum process. During the retrospective ritual, the Scrum team reviews its processes to 
determine what can be improved in subsequent sprints. Remember, the Agile philosophy calls for consistent assessment and improvement.
To that end, the sprint retrospective ritual is one of the most critical of the entire Scrum framework.




